V1 Criteria (likely can all be accessed via API we have now):

Standard Screener Criteria:

Market Cap
This is the rough market value of the entire company. Market cap is calculated by multiplying the share price by the total number of shares outstanding. For example, if a company had a share price of $50, and 1,000,000 shares outstanding, it would have a market cap of $50,000,000. A common misconception is that market cap is the entire worth of a company, but many companies not only issue stock, but also take on debt as part of their capital structure, so just think of market capitalization as the total value of the publicly-traded portion of the company.

Price
Simply the current market price of the common shares of the company. Price is typically influenced by supply and demand conditions, so the more demand there is (as denoted by increased BUY volume) this will normally increase the price, as buyers decrease the supply of shares outstanding. Conversely, if there are more sellers than buyers (therefore, less demand) the supply of shares outstanding goes up, and the price will typically drop. See "Volume" for more insight into this relationship.

EPS
A very important aspect for companies, especially those that pay quarterly dividends to their shareholders. EPS stands for earnings per share, and it is calculated by dividing the company’s earnings by the total number of shares outstanding. For example, if a company made $2 billion last year, and has 200,000,000 shares outstanding, it would have an EPS of $10. EPS is very important for large, well-established value names that rely on income-based investors to buy and hold their shares, as they can issue a dividend to these investors quarterly under the assumptions that most will re-invest these dividends, and keep the share price afloat due to supply/demand.


P/E Ratio
The Price to Earnings ratio utilizes the Earnings per Share calculation in that it divides the stock price by this metric (hence, price-to-earnings!). If we have a share price of $50, and an EPS of $5, we are left with a P/E ratio of 10. P/E ratios are notably lower in companies with great earnings and thus, better financial strength. Value approach ... Growth approach ...

PEG Ratio



Beta


Sector


Industry


Volume (can be 14-day moving avg, etc)




Dividend (Y/N)



Earnings Date? (some screeners have this, but it might not be necessary)



V2 Criteria (likely will need EDGAR API & some calculation)
Price Ratios:
P/S
P/B
P/C
P/FCF


Profitability Ratios:
ROA
ROE
ROI
Gross Margin
Operating Margin
Profit Margin

Liquidity Ratios:
Current Ratio
Quick Ratio
LTD/Equity
Debt/Equity


Other Greeks:
Alpha
Delta
Gamma
Vega
Theta
Rho
